INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
for the aloo or potato stuffing:

    3 to 4 medium potatoes or aloo, boiled and mashed
    1 or 2 green chilies, chopped finely
    ¼ to ½ tsp kashmiri chilli powder or deghi mirch (optional)
    ¼ to ½ tsp of punjabi garam masala powder or garam masala powder
    ½ to 1 tsp amchur/dry mango powder
    2 to 3 tsp finely chopped coriander leaves (optional)
    salt as required
    oil or ghee as required for roasting parathas

for the whole wheat dough:

    2 cups whole wheat flour
    ½ tsp salt
    1 to 2 tsp oil or ghee
    water as required for kneading

serving suggestions:

    white butter or yogurt to serve with the aloo parathas
    mango pickle or lemon pickle


INSTRUCTIONS
preparing the aloo stuffing:

    first boil the potatoes and peel them. you can boil or steam the potatoes in a pressure cooker, steamer or electric cooker.
    chop and then mash the potatoes with a potato masher.
    the potatoes should be mashed very well. there should be no lumps or small pieces in it.
    now add the chopped green chilies, garam masala powder, red chili powder, dry mango powder and salt.
    mix the spice powders and green chilies with the mashed potatoes very well. check the taste and add more salt or red chili powder or dry mango powder as per your taste. you can also add 2 to 3 tsp of chopped coriander leaves. a variation is to add finely chopped onions, if you like. but the onions have to be finely chopped. otherwise they came out when rolling the parathas. keep prepared aloo stuffing aside.

preparing whole wheat dough:

    in another bowl or pan, take whole wheat flour. make a well in the center. add salt, oil and about half of the water.
    bring the mixture together and knead into a smooth soft dough. cover and keep the dough aside for 20 to 30 minutes.

assembling and rolling aloo parathas:

    pinch two small balls from the dough. flatten them and dust with whole wheat flour.
    with a rolling pin, roll them into about 4 to 5 inches diameter rounds . try making both the rounds of the same size.
    on of the rolled dough circle, place the potato stuffing in the center and keep about 1 inch empty space from the sides.
    gently place the second circle on top.
    press and seal the edges with your fingertips.
    dust some flour on the stuffed paratha and roll into a round of about 7 to 8 inches in diameter or about the size of a normal roti or chapati.
    alternatively, you could follow this second method too of stuffing parathas.
    pinch a medium ball dough. roll and flatten it. dust with some flour and roll it in a circle of about 5 to 5.5 inches in diameter.
    place the potato stuffing in the center, keeping about 2 to 2.5 inches space from the sides.
    take the edge and start pleating as well as bringing the pleats in the center.
    join the pleats together. the pleats have to be joined well, as otherwise there will be gaps while rolling and the filling comes out. in case you do see the filling, then just take a small piece of dough and cover the gap. roll to smoothen out the small piece of dough.
    press the pleats from center.
    sprinkle some flour and roll this version of stuffed paratha to about the same size as that of a chapati or roti.
    on a hot tava/skillet/griddle place the rolled paratha. the tava shoud be hot and not at a low temperaure. cooking parathas at a low flame will harden them. parathas ideally are crisp as well as soft.
    when the base is partly cooked, flip.
    spread some ghee on the partly cooked part.
    flip again and this time this side has to be cooked more than the previous side. you will see brown spots on the aloo paratha.
    spread some ghee on this side too. a well made and well roasted paratha will puff up.
    flip again once or twice till both the sides are cooked properly. you should see crisp brown spots on the paratha. you can also press the paratha edges with a spatula or spoon, so that they are fried well. as some time, the paratha edges are not cooked well. make all parathas this way and stack them up in a roti basket or casserole.
    you can also serve the parathas directly from the tava/skillet straight in the serving plate. serve some extra butter on the side, along with mango pickle or lemon pickle or some yogurt.
